README.md, before:

# Benchmark Runner for Cosmos DB 

This repo is used for benchmarking Cosmos DB SDK against various workloads

## Data Model
The use-case is the following 
- Persist the user provided *sets* (in practice this is a graph, but a set models the same workload in a simpler way) in the DB e.g. [ G1{A,B,C}, G2{X,Y}, G3{P,Q,R,S}]
- Support the query, provided any one of the set members return the original set. e.g. Given Q, return {P,Q,R,S}

To support this use case, we model the data using two collections
1. A graph collection that stores each Set with the key as the Set name (or GraphId). e.g. Key = "G1", Value = "A,B,C"
2. A routing collection that point each member to the Set name (or GraphId). e.g.for set G1, we have the following 3 documents - [Key = "A", Value = "G1"]  [Key = "B", Value = "G1"]  [Key = "C", Value = "G1"]


## Workloads
JMH is used as the benchmarking harness (https://openjdk.java.net/projects/code-tools/jmh/) \
See `com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.cosmosdb.client.benchmark.jmh.ReadBenchmark` for the JMH annotated class.

The following are the workloads that have been modelled 
1. lookupRoutingSingle - Lookup a single document in the routing collection by calling readDocument(..)
2. lookupRoutingBatch  - Lookup a batch of 1000 documents in the routing collection. This is done by grouping the 1000 keys by the partitionRangeId that they fall into and issuing 1 query per partition.
3. lookupTwoTableSingle - Given a key, do a lookup in Routing collection by calling readDocument(..), use the graph-id present in the retrieved document to fetch the corresponding graph from the Graph collection.
4. lookupTwoTableBatch - Same as #3, but for batches of 1000 keys. This translates into a call to lookupRoutingBatch, followed by a call to lookupGraphBatch.

## Building runnable jar
+ Provide correct CosmosDB Account/DB details. Update client-common/src/main/resources/reference.conf
+ Configure the benchmark runner. Update benchmark/src/main/resources/reference.conf. Description of the config block follows
```benchmark {
     jmh {
       params {
         jvmArgs = "-Xmx8G"
         jmhArgs = "-f1 -i 1 -r 1 -w 1 -wi 1 -t 1 -rf json" // see https://github.com/guozheng/jmh-tutorial/blob/master/README.md#jmh-command-line-options
         resultsPath = "/tmp/"                              // The detailed results file for each run goes here
         summaryCsvFile = "/tmp/benchmark-results.csv"      // A simple consolidated summary of all the runs go here
       }
       runList = [                                          // Specify n number of benchmark runs
         {
           name = "lookup-single-sync"                      // Name for this run
           regex = "ReadBenchmark.lookupRoutingSingle"      // Regex to use to pickup benchmark methods
           threads = [1]//[1,50,100, 125]                   // Number of threads to use for benchmark. We do a separate benchmark for each thread in the array.
           clientType = "sync"                              // Specify whether to use cosmos sync or async SDK.
         },
         {
           name = "lookup-single-async"
           regex = "ReadBenchmark.lookupRoutingSingle"
           threads = [1]//[1,50,100,125,250]//[1,10,50,100,500,750,1000]
           clientType = "async"
         }
       ]
     }
   }
```

+ To build runnable jar run
`./gradlew shadowJar -PcosmosAsyncVersion=2.4.3`
+ Copy to target machine
`scp benchmark/build/libs/benchmark-1.2-cosmos-2.4.3-SNAPSHOT-shadow.jar arsriram@52.184.191.216:~/`
+ Modify config after building shadow jar (optional)
    - You can modify the reference.conf file inside the runnable jar to configure DB account, DB name, MasterKey
    - `vim benchmark-1.2-cosmos-2.4.3-SNAPSHOT-shadow.jar`
    - Hit enter on reference.conf to enter file
    - Look for the following block and modify as needed. :wq to save file and :q! to exit Vim zip browser.

## Generate test collection and data
`java -cp benchmark/build/libs/benchmark-1.2-cosmos-2.4.3-SNAPSHOT-shadow.jar com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.datagenerator.main.DataGenUtil`

## Run benchmarks
`java -cp benchmark/build/libs/benchmark-1.2-cosmos-2.4.3-SNAPSHOT-shadow.jar com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.cosmosdb.client.benchmark.suite.BenchmarkSuiteRunner | tee benchmark.out`

## Debug in IDE
- Run this main method `com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.cosmosdb.client.benchmark.jmh.ReadBenchmark.main`
- This will simply exercise readDocument(..)

## Results of benchmark runs
### Single Lookup workload
#### Sync SDK v2.4.0 vs Async SDK v2.4.3
refer to /benchmark/results/2.4.3/lookup-single

|OpName             |ThreadCount|Throughput(ops/s)|Throughput(+/-)|P95(ms)|P99(ms)|OpCount  |ErrorCount|ErrorRate|
|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|---------------|-------|-------|---------|----------|---------|
|lookup-single-sync | 1         | 729.42          | NaN           | 1.67  | 2.00  | 510189  | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 50        | 40262.35        | NaN           | 1.47  | 2.10  | 28706975| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 100       | 69682.23        | NaN           | 1.86  | 4.10  | 49662923| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 125       | 81009.16        | NaN           | 2.53  | 6.37  | 56384645| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 250       | 89921.72        | NaN           | 5.41  | 17.14 | 62845832| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 300       | 89358.84        | NaN           | 7.25  | 24.12 | 62005360| 0        | 0.00    |
|                   |           |                 |               |       |       |         |          |         |      
|lookup-single-async| 1         | 659.74          | NaN           | 1.80  | 2.11  | 471670  | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 50        | 32395.38        | NaN           | 1.80  | 2.42  | 23345061| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 100       | 54134.88        | NaN           | 3.22  | 5.18  | 37266361| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 125       | 54486.74        | NaN           | 4.45  | 7.95  | 38483976| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 250       | 63342.66        | NaN           | 13.14 | 22.54 | 42745108| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 300       | 64177.47        | NaN           | 14.47 | 24.74 | 45406863| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 400       | 62915.07        | NaN           | 23.66 | 37.95 | 42994734| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 500       | 64044.00        | NaN           | 29.92 | 46.47 | 42813558| 0        | 0.00    |

#### Async SDK v2.6.1

|OpName                                  |ThreadCount|Throughput(ops/s)|Throughput(+/-)|P95(ms)|P99(ms)|OpCount  |ErrorCount|ErrorRate|
|----------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------|---------------|-------|-------|---------|----------|---------|
|lookup-single-async-cosmos-v2.6.1       | 1         | 782.71          | NaN           | 1.51  | 1.83  | 557409  | 0        | 0.00    |

Benchmark hangs for threadCount > 1, the following messages are logged
```
2019-10-03 18:38:16,046       [CosmosEventLoop-5-18] WARN  com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.GoneAndRetryWithRetryPolicy - Received gone exception, will retry, GoneException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com:16748/apps/16d6d56e-e73d-4069-98f5-2e677328a7d1/services/1e12e422-b053-47c7-9c03-c5a1b1d73024/partitions/c0ec71ae-5880-40a5
-a9e6-d968b93c7620/replicas/132142763239106974p/', statusCode=410, message=ChannelHandlerContext(RntbdRequestManager#0, [id: 0x3f515e5b, L:/172.19.0.4:57232 - R:cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com/104.208.231.8:16748]) closed exceptionally with 3 pending requests, getCauseInfo=[class: class java.lang.IllegalStateException, message: null], responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=ty
pe%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3DP2mCg7rATURTyPNA7Fr7Ka%2BU8%2F9DqT2sQ0UUbA%2BkjEg%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:38:16 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["2f60d4c0-d7f0-47d9-983c-b6e23d2b20d3"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}
2019-10-03 18:38:16,046       [CosmosEventLoop-5-18] WARN  com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.GoneAndRetryWithRetryPolicy - Received gone exception, will retry, GoneException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com:16748/apps/16d6d56e-e73d-4069-98f5-2e677328a7d1/services/1e12e422-b053-47c7-9c03-c5a1b1d73024/partitions/c0ec71ae-5880-40a5
-a9e6-d968b93c7620/replicas/132142763239106974p/', statusCode=410, message=ChannelHandlerContext(RntbdRequestManager#0, [id: 0x3f515e5b, L:/172.19.0.4:57232 - R:cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com/104.208.231.8:16748]) closed exceptionally with 3 pending requests, getCauseInfo=[class: class java.lang.IllegalStateException, message: null], responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=ty
pe%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3D3Da8P%2FHJVWUqrlkeP8jW4mae%2FKf65eqt9Zo9%2BmJKBk8%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:38:16 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["f1e76dd8-a971-4baa-8f13-7f2c864d1fb0"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}
2019-10-03 18:38:16,409       [CosmosEventLoop-5-2] ERROR AsyncCosmosDbClient - Error in getDocument()
RequestTimeoutException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd6.documents.azure.com:14044/apps/3956b2e2-7d8a-4c54-b795-671c83ed6192/services/819269b8-9cf6-467c-804a-d6bdcdb860f6/partitions/f402a164-a189-4a98-a690-47136496a0b2/replicas/132142461299436313s/', statusCode=408, message=Request timeout interval (60,000 ms) elapsed, 
RequestStartTime: "03 Oct 2019 18:37:16.394", RequestEndTime: "03 Oct 2019 18:38:16.408", Duration: 60014 ms, Number of regions attempted: 1
StoreResponseStatistics{requestResponseTime="03 Oct 2019 18:38:16.408", storeResult=storePhysicalAddress: null, lsn: -1, globalCommittedLsn: -1, partitionKeyRangeId: null, isValid: true, statusCode: 408, subStatusCode: 0, isGone: false, isNotFound: false, isInvalidPartition: false, requestCharge: 0.0, itemLSN: -1, sessionToken: null, exception: Request timeout interval (60,000 ms) elapsed, requestRe
sourceType=Document, requestOperationType=Read}
, getCauseInfo=null, responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=type%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3DipjgCZ%2B%2BkRCr3cdUQr39lyTkQkQ8Oevj0xI%2BOIKOXNE%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:37:16 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["919af32a-705a-4077-a6c7-667d23813b03"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-
on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}
        at com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.rntbd.RntbdRequestRecord.expire(RntbdRequestRecord.java:84)
        at io.netty.util.concurrent.AbstractEventExecutor.safeExecute(AbstractEventExecutor.java:163)
        at io.netty.util.concurrent.SingleThreadEventExecutor.runAllTasks(SingleThreadEventExecutor.java:416)
        at io.netty.channel.nio.NioEventLoop.run(NioEventLoop.java:515)
        at io.netty.util.concurrent.SingleThreadEventExecutor$5.run(SingleThreadEventExecutor.java:918)
        at io.netty.util.internal.ThreadExecutorMap$2.run(ThreadExecutorMap.java:74)
        at io.netty.util.concurrent.FastThreadLocalRunnable.run(FastThreadLocalRunnable.java:30)
        at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:748)
2019-10-03 18:38:16,410       [CosmosEventLoop-5-24] WARN  com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.GoneAndRetryWithRetryPolicy - Received gone exception, will retry, GoneException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com:14115/apps/506e03a2-1c37-4e4c-bd59-9369bbf4d4b8/services/df5ca914-7ade-4fbd-b488-2543f84b695d/partitions/1f999bf9-3451-4de7
-accb-72721fda4abb/replicas/132142763257700618s/', statusCode=410, message=ChannelHandlerContext(RntbdRequestManager#0, [id: 0x748bbb93, L:/172.19.0.4:57992 - R:cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com/104.208.231.8:14115]) closed exceptionally with 1 pending requests, getCauseInfo=[class: class java.lang.IllegalStateException, message: null], responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=ty
pe%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3D9Gb05907BrPiFt%2BP39nw2XodyTxLaBocyee8Xuegwwo%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:38:16 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["8bd3d587-456f-45eb-9204-fdadc1f4e58d"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}
2019-10-03 18:38:16,410       [com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.cosmosdb.client.benchmark.jmh.ReadBenchmark.lookupRoutingSingle-jmh-worker-39] ERROR AbstractBenchmark - CosmosDbException Exception in benchmark method. Msg = A cosmosDB exception has occurred!, Cause = Request timeout interval (60,000 ms) elapsed, 
RequestStartTime: "03 Oct 2019 18:37:16.394", RequestEndTime: "03 Oct 2019 18:38:16.408", Duration: 60014 ms, Number of regions attempted: 1
StoreResponseStatistics{requestResponseTime="03 Oct 2019 18:38:16.408", storeResult=storePhysicalAddress: null, lsn: -1, globalCommittedLsn: -1, partitionKeyRangeId: null, isValid: true, statusCode: 408, subStatusCode: 0, isGone: false, isNotFound: false, isInvalidPartition: false, requestCharge: 0.0, itemLSN: -1, sessionToken: null, exception: Request timeout interval (60,000 ms) elapsed, requestRe
sourceType=Document, requestOperationType=Read}

2019-10-03 18:38:17,506       [CosmosEventLoop-5-16] WARN  com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.GoneAndRetryWithRetryPolicy - Received gone exception, will retry, GoneException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd6.documents.azure.com:14047/apps/d46d193b-507c-4102-9c2d-41d3997eb75e/services/6fe4eab3-c60a-4d12-ad9d-718b1db9910d/partitions/59e24c12-a30d-481a-
a82f-7dcf6e258b17/replicas/132144188441640655s/', statusCode=410, message=ChannelHandlerContext(RntbdRequestManager#0, [id: 0xd5a031f1, L:/172.19.0.4:58956 - R:cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd6.documents.azure.com/104.208.231.0:14047]) closed exceptionally with 2 pending requests, getCauseInfo=[class: class java.lang.IllegalStateException, message: null], responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=type
%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3DrbcKmQsWk48TvvXXaqY7uvWz2BT3ReHuI%2B35MeZpq%2F0%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:38:17 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["330d5cfd-923e-4657-b253-713dd7695a0c"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}

```

### Batch lookup workload
#### Sync SDK v2.4.0 vs Async SDK v2.4.3

|OpName             |ThreadCount|Throughput(ops/s)|Throughput(+/-)|P95(ms)|P99(ms)|OpCount  |ErrorCount|ErrorRate|
|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|---------------|-------|-------|---------|----------|---------|
|lookup-batch-sync  | 1         | 65.55           | NaN           | 20.48 | 172.60| 45489   | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 4         | 138.54          | NaN           | 61.08 | 143.89| 102282  | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 8         | 156.22          | NaN           | 130.42| 267.39| 111594  | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 16        | 204.68          | NaN           | 133.30 | 245.52 | 143398| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 32        | 208.40          | NaN           | 327.68 | 458.73 | 146127| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 64        | 190.94          | NaN           | 708.84 | 912.86 | 136143| 0        | 0.00    |
|                   |           |                 |               |       |       |         |          |         |      
|lookup-batch-async | 1         | 29.96           | NaN           | 38.01  | 60.02  | 21278 | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 4         | 82.45           | NaN           | 54.20  | 91.45  | 67820 | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 8         | 149.55          | NaN           | 75.50  | 93.85  | 107467| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 16        | 174.59          | NaN           | 131.86 | 168.82 | 120926| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 32        | 155.55          | NaN           | 267.39 | 460.85 | 110059| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 64        | 109.23          | NaN           | 1025.51| 1170.21| 75567 | 0        | 0.00    |

Commit message:

Updated readme with instructions to remote debug running benchmark from IDEA

README.md, after:

# Benchmark Runner for Cosmos DB 

This repo is used for benchmarking Cosmos DB SDK against various workloads

## Data Model
The use-case is the following 
- Persist the user provided *sets* (in practice this is a graph, but a set models the same workload in a simpler way) in the DB e.g. [ G1{A,B,C}, G2{X,Y}, G3{P,Q,R,S}]
- Support the query, provided any one of the set members return the original set. e.g. Given Q, return {P,Q,R,S}

To support this use case, we model the data using two collections
1. A graph collection that stores each Set with the key as the Set name (or GraphId). e.g. Key = "G1", Value = "A,B,C"
2. A routing collection that point each member to the Set name (or GraphId). e.g.for set G1, we have the following 3 documents - [Key = "A", Value = "G1"]  [Key = "B", Value = "G1"]  [Key = "C", Value = "G1"]


## Workloads
JMH is used as the benchmarking harness (https://openjdk.java.net/projects/code-tools/jmh/) \
See `com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.cosmosdb.client.benchmark.jmh.ReadBenchmark` for the JMH annotated class.

The following are the workloads that have been modelled 
1. lookupRoutingSingle - Lookup a single document in the routing collection by calling readDocument(..)
2. lookupRoutingBatch  - Lookup a batch of 1000 documents in the routing collection. This is done by grouping the 1000 keys by the partitionRangeId that they fall into and issuing 1 query per partition.
3. lookupTwoTableSingle - Given a key, do a lookup in Routing collection by calling readDocument(..), use the graph-id present in the retrieved document to fetch the corresponding graph from the Graph collection.
4. lookupTwoTableBatch - Same as #3, but for batches of 1000 keys. This translates into a call to lookupRoutingBatch, followed by a call to lookupGraphBatch.

## Building runnable jar
+ Provide correct CosmosDB Account/DB details. Update client-common/src/main/resources/reference.conf
+ Configure the benchmark runner. Update benchmark/src/main/resources/reference.conf. Description of the config block follows
```benchmark {
     jmh {
       params {
         jvmArgs = "-Xmx8G"
         jmhArgs = "-f1  -i 1 -r 1 -w 1 -wi 1 -t 1 -rf json" // see https://github.com/guozheng/jmh-tutorial/blob/master/README.md#jmh-command-line-options
         // -f 1    -> How many forks? Each fork is an independent benchmark on a separate JVM. Results are aggregated to provide mean and std-dev(error)
         // -i 1    -> Iterations share the same JVM. Results from each iteration are aggregated to provide mean and std-dev(error)
         // -r 1    -> How long does each iteration last? (default seconds).
         // -wi 1   -> How many warm-up iterations? These don't count towards the measurement.
         // -w 1    -> How long does each warm-up iteration last?
         // -t 1    -> How many concurrent threads to use for load generation? This is ignored, value from runList below is used instead.
         // -to 600 -> Timeout (seconds) for each iteration 
         resultsPath = "/tmp/"                              // The detailed results file for each run goes here
         summaryCsvFile = "/tmp/benchmark-results.csv"      // A simple consolidated summary of all the runs go here
       }
       runList = [                                          // Specify n number of benchmark runs
         {
           name = "lookup-single-sync"                      // Name for this run
           regex = "ReadBenchmark.lookupRoutingSingle"      // Regex to use to pickup benchmark methods
           threads = [1]//[1,50,100, 125]                   // Number of threads to use for benchmark. We do a separate benchmark for each thread in the array.
           clientType = "sync"                              // Specify whether to use cosmos sync or async SDK.
         },
         {
           name = "lookup-single-async"
           regex = "ReadBenchmark.lookupRoutingSingle"
           threads = [1]//[1,50,100,125,250]//[1,10,50,100,500,750,1000]
           clientType = "async"
         }
       ]
     }
   }
```

+ To build runnable jar run
`./gradlew shadowJar -PcosmosAsyncVersion=2.4.3`
+ Copy to target machine
`scp benchmark/build/libs/benchmark-1.2-cosmos-2.4.3-SNAPSHOT-shadow.jar arsriram@52.184.191.216:~/`
+ Modify config after building shadow jar (optional)
    - You can modify the reference.conf file inside the runnable jar to configure DB account, DB name, MasterKey
    - `vim benchmark-1.2-cosmos-2.4.3-SNAPSHOT-shadow.jar`
    - Hit enter on reference.conf to enter file
    - Look for the following block and modify as needed. :wq to save file and :q! to exit Vim zip browser.

## Generate test collection and data
`java -cp benchmark/build/libs/benchmark-1.2-cosmos-2.4.3-SNAPSHOT-shadow.jar com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.datagenerator.main.DataGenUtil`

## Run benchmarks
`java -cp benchmark/build/libs/benchmark-1.2-cosmos-2.4.3-SNAPSHOT-shadow.jar com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.cosmosdb.client.benchmark.suite.BenchmarkSuiteRunner | tee benchmark.out` \
Note that the SuiteRunner runs in it's own separate JVM, the purpose of the SuiteRunner is the following
1. Execute all the benchmarks as per the spec in `benchmark/src/main/resources/reference.conf`
2. Spawn a JVM for each benchmark run (one-at-a-time) in #1 and aggregate the results into a single CSV file.

## Debug in IDE
- Run this main method `com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.cosmosdb.client.benchmark.jmh.ReadBenchmark.main`
- This will simply exercise readDocument(..)

## Attaching a debugger to a running benchmark
1. Update benchmark/src/main/resources/reference.conf with `jvmArgs = "-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=y,address=5005"` \
2. Following instructions in section *Run benchmarks* to start the suite runner. This will start the benchmark JVM (not the suite runner) in debug mode, listening on localhost:5005
3. Instructions to connect using IDEA Community Edition follows
- From the top menu-bar *Run* -> *Edit Configuration* -> + icon (top-left) to 'Add New Configuration' -> Select 'Remote' -> Rename your configuration to say 'JMH' -> Select port as 5005 -> Debugger mode = Attach to remote JVM -> Hit OK to save and close
- Set breakpoints as needed, say inside `com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.rx.internal.RxDocumentClientImpl.readDocument`
- Select the newly created JMH run configuration from the drop down and hit the debug button. This will start the debug session.

Notes
- The default timeout for each JMH iteration is 10min. To increase, update jmhArgs in the config file 
   

## Results of benchmark runs
### Single Lookup workload
#### Sync SDK v2.4.0 vs Async SDK v2.4.3
refer to /benchmark/results/2.4.3/lookup-single

|OpName             |ThreadCount|Throughput(ops/s)|Throughput(+/-)|P95(ms)|P99(ms)|OpCount  |ErrorCount|ErrorRate|
|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|---------------|-------|-------|---------|----------|---------|
|lookup-single-sync | 1         | 729.42          | NaN           | 1.67  | 2.00  | 510189  | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 50        | 40262.35        | NaN           | 1.47  | 2.10  | 28706975| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 100       | 69682.23        | NaN           | 1.86  | 4.10  | 49662923| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 125       | 81009.16        | NaN           | 2.53  | 6.37  | 56384645| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 250       | 89921.72        | NaN           | 5.41  | 17.14 | 62845832| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-sync | 300       | 89358.84        | NaN           | 7.25  | 24.12 | 62005360| 0        | 0.00    |
|                   |           |                 |               |       |       |         |          |         |      
|lookup-single-async| 1         | 659.74          | NaN           | 1.80  | 2.11  | 471670  | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 50        | 32395.38        | NaN           | 1.80  | 2.42  | 23345061| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 100       | 54134.88        | NaN           | 3.22  | 5.18  | 37266361| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 125       | 54486.74        | NaN           | 4.45  | 7.95  | 38483976| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 250       | 63342.66        | NaN           | 13.14 | 22.54 | 42745108| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 300       | 64177.47        | NaN           | 14.47 | 24.74 | 45406863| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 400       | 62915.07        | NaN           | 23.66 | 37.95 | 42994734| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-single-async| 500       | 64044.00        | NaN           | 29.92 | 46.47 | 42813558| 0        | 0.00    |

#### Async SDK v2.6.1

|OpName                                  |ThreadCount|Throughput(ops/s)|Throughput(+/-)|P95(ms)|P99(ms)|OpCount  |ErrorCount|ErrorRate|
|----------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------|---------------|-------|-------|---------|----------|---------|
|lookup-single-async-cosmos-v2.6.1       | 1         | 782.71          | NaN           | 1.51  | 1.83  | 557409  | 0        | 0.00    |

Benchmark hangs for threadCount > 1, the following messages are logged
```
2019-10-03 18:38:16,046       [CosmosEventLoop-5-18] WARN  com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.GoneAndRetryWithRetryPolicy - Received gone exception, will retry, GoneException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com:16748/apps/16d6d56e-e73d-4069-98f5-2e677328a7d1/services/1e12e422-b053-47c7-9c03-c5a1b1d73024/partitions/c0ec71ae-5880-40a5
-a9e6-d968b93c7620/replicas/132142763239106974p/', statusCode=410, message=ChannelHandlerContext(RntbdRequestManager#0, [id: 0x3f515e5b, L:/172.19.0.4:57232 - R:cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com/104.208.231.8:16748]) closed exceptionally with 3 pending requests, getCauseInfo=[class: class java.lang.IllegalStateException, message: null], responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=ty
pe%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3DP2mCg7rATURTyPNA7Fr7Ka%2BU8%2F9DqT2sQ0UUbA%2BkjEg%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:38:16 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["2f60d4c0-d7f0-47d9-983c-b6e23d2b20d3"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}
2019-10-03 18:38:16,046       [CosmosEventLoop-5-18] WARN  com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.GoneAndRetryWithRetryPolicy - Received gone exception, will retry, GoneException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com:16748/apps/16d6d56e-e73d-4069-98f5-2e677328a7d1/services/1e12e422-b053-47c7-9c03-c5a1b1d73024/partitions/c0ec71ae-5880-40a5
-a9e6-d968b93c7620/replicas/132142763239106974p/', statusCode=410, message=ChannelHandlerContext(RntbdRequestManager#0, [id: 0x3f515e5b, L:/172.19.0.4:57232 - R:cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com/104.208.231.8:16748]) closed exceptionally with 3 pending requests, getCauseInfo=[class: class java.lang.IllegalStateException, message: null], responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=ty
pe%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3D3Da8P%2FHJVWUqrlkeP8jW4mae%2FKf65eqt9Zo9%2BmJKBk8%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:38:16 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["f1e76dd8-a971-4baa-8f13-7f2c864d1fb0"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}
2019-10-03 18:38:16,409       [CosmosEventLoop-5-2] ERROR AsyncCosmosDbClient - Error in getDocument()
RequestTimeoutException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd6.documents.azure.com:14044/apps/3956b2e2-7d8a-4c54-b795-671c83ed6192/services/819269b8-9cf6-467c-804a-d6bdcdb860f6/partitions/f402a164-a189-4a98-a690-47136496a0b2/replicas/132142461299436313s/', statusCode=408, message=Request timeout interval (60,000 ms) elapsed, 
RequestStartTime: "03 Oct 2019 18:37:16.394", RequestEndTime: "03 Oct 2019 18:38:16.408", Duration: 60014 ms, Number of regions attempted: 1
StoreResponseStatistics{requestResponseTime="03 Oct 2019 18:38:16.408", storeResult=storePhysicalAddress: null, lsn: -1, globalCommittedLsn: -1, partitionKeyRangeId: null, isValid: true, statusCode: 408, subStatusCode: 0, isGone: false, isNotFound: false, isInvalidPartition: false, requestCharge: 0.0, itemLSN: -1, sessionToken: null, exception: Request timeout interval (60,000 ms) elapsed, requestRe
sourceType=Document, requestOperationType=Read}
, getCauseInfo=null, responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=type%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3DipjgCZ%2B%2BkRCr3cdUQr39lyTkQkQ8Oevj0xI%2BOIKOXNE%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:37:16 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["919af32a-705a-4077-a6c7-667d23813b03"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-
on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}
        at com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.rntbd.RntbdRequestRecord.expire(RntbdRequestRecord.java:84)
        at io.netty.util.concurrent.AbstractEventExecutor.safeExecute(AbstractEventExecutor.java:163)
        at io.netty.util.concurrent.SingleThreadEventExecutor.runAllTasks(SingleThreadEventExecutor.java:416)
        at io.netty.channel.nio.NioEventLoop.run(NioEventLoop.java:515)
        at io.netty.util.concurrent.SingleThreadEventExecutor$5.run(SingleThreadEventExecutor.java:918)
        at io.netty.util.internal.ThreadExecutorMap$2.run(ThreadExecutorMap.java:74)
        at io.netty.util.concurrent.FastThreadLocalRunnable.run(FastThreadLocalRunnable.java:30)
        at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:748)
2019-10-03 18:38:16,410       [CosmosEventLoop-5-24] WARN  com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.GoneAndRetryWithRetryPolicy - Received gone exception, will retry, GoneException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com:14115/apps/506e03a2-1c37-4e4c-bd59-9369bbf4d4b8/services/df5ca914-7ade-4fbd-b488-2543f84b695d/partitions/1f999bf9-3451-4de7
-accb-72721fda4abb/replicas/132142763257700618s/', statusCode=410, message=ChannelHandlerContext(RntbdRequestManager#0, [id: 0x748bbb93, L:/172.19.0.4:57992 - R:cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd14.documents.azure.com/104.208.231.8:14115]) closed exceptionally with 1 pending requests, getCauseInfo=[class: class java.lang.IllegalStateException, message: null], responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=ty
pe%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3D9Gb05907BrPiFt%2BP39nw2XodyTxLaBocyee8Xuegwwo%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:38:16 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["8bd3d587-456f-45eb-9204-fdadc1f4e58d"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}
2019-10-03 18:38:16,410       [com.adobe.platform.core.identity.services.cosmosdb.client.benchmark.jmh.ReadBenchmark.lookupRoutingSingle-jmh-worker-39] ERROR AbstractBenchmark - CosmosDbException Exception in benchmark method. Msg = A cosmosDB exception has occurred!, Cause = Request timeout interval (60,000 ms) elapsed, 
RequestStartTime: "03 Oct 2019 18:37:16.394", RequestEndTime: "03 Oct 2019 18:38:16.408", Duration: 60014 ms, Number of regions attempted: 1
StoreResponseStatistics{requestResponseTime="03 Oct 2019 18:38:16.408", storeResult=storePhysicalAddress: null, lsn: -1, globalCommittedLsn: -1, partitionKeyRangeId: null, isValid: true, statusCode: 408, subStatusCode: 0, isGone: false, isNotFound: false, isInvalidPartition: false, requestCharge: 0.0, itemLSN: -1, sessionToken: null, exception: Request timeout interval (60,000 ms) elapsed, requestRe
sourceType=Document, requestOperationType=Read}

2019-10-03 18:38:17,506       [CosmosEventLoop-5-16] WARN  com.microsoft.azure.cosmosdb.internal.directconnectivity.GoneAndRetryWithRetryPolicy - Received gone exception, will retry, GoneException{error=null, resourceAddress='rntbd://cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd6.documents.azure.com:14047/apps/d46d193b-507c-4102-9c2d-41d3997eb75e/services/6fe4eab3-c60a-4d12-ad9d-718b1db9910d/partitions/59e24c12-a30d-481a-
a82f-7dcf6e258b17/replicas/132144188441640655s/', statusCode=410, message=ChannelHandlerContext(RntbdRequestManager#0, [id: 0xd5a031f1, L:/172.19.0.4:58956 - R:cdb-ms-prod-eastus2-fd6.documents.azure.com/104.208.231.0:14047]) closed exceptionally with 2 pending requests, getCauseInfo=[class: class java.lang.IllegalStateException, message: null], responseHeaders={}, requestHeaders={authorization=type
%3Dmaster%26ver%3D1.0%26sig%3DrbcKmQsWk48TvvXXaqY7uvWz2BT3ReHuI%2B35MeZpq%2F0%3D, Accept=application/json, x-ms-date=Thu, 03 Oct 2019 18:38:17 GMT, x-ms-documentdb-collection-rid=j7M8ANVKp0o=, x-ms-client-retry-attempt-count=0, x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey=["330d5cfd-923e-4657-b253-713dd7695a0c"], x-ms-remaining-time-in-ms-on-client=60000, x-ms-consistency-level=Eventual}}

```

### Batch lookup workload
#### Sync SDK v2.4.0 vs Async SDK v2.4.3

|OpName             |ThreadCount|Throughput(ops/s)|Throughput(+/-)|P95(ms)|P99(ms)|OpCount  |ErrorCount|ErrorRate|
|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|---------------|-------|-------|---------|----------|---------|
|lookup-batch-sync  | 1         | 65.55           | NaN           | 20.48 | 172.60| 45489   | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 4         | 138.54          | NaN           | 61.08 | 143.89| 102282  | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 8         | 156.22          | NaN           | 130.42| 267.39| 111594  | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 16        | 204.68          | NaN           | 133.30 | 245.52 | 143398| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 32        | 208.40          | NaN           | 327.68 | 458.73 | 146127| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-sync  | 64        | 190.94          | NaN           | 708.84 | 912.86 | 136143| 0        | 0.00    |
|                   |           |                 |               |       |       |         |          |         |      
|lookup-batch-async | 1         | 29.96           | NaN           | 38.01  | 60.02  | 21278 | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 4         | 82.45           | NaN           | 54.20  | 91.45  | 67820 | 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 8         | 149.55          | NaN           | 75.50  | 93.85  | 107467| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 16        | 174.59          | NaN           | 131.86 | 168.82 | 120926| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 32        | 155.55          | NaN           | 267.39 | 460.85 | 110059| 0        | 0.00    |
|lookup-batch-async | 64        | 109.23          | NaN           | 1025.51| 1170.21| 75567 | 0        | 0.00    |
